# cripsr_deleter

crispr_deleter is a Python script that generates guide RNA sequences for knocking out genes using CRISPR SpCas9. The gRNAs 
generated by crispr_deleter.py will target sites in the first half of the targeted coding sequences in order to cause more
catastrophic frame-shift errors when the double strand break is repaired.

This script requires a genbank file containing a genome or library of annotated coding sequences and searches the file for 
sequences annotated with matching search terms. The script will output the DNA sequences encoding the guide RNAs in 
a FASTA file.


## Usage

Make sure that the genbank file and crispr_deleter.py are in the same directory. Rename the genbank file to a short name for ease of use.

```bash
python3 crispr_deleter
```
The script will require user input, so follow the instructions as printed in the terminal.

## Use case
```bash
python3 crispr_deleter
```
Running the script will show this line below. 
```bash
Type 0 for new input, type 1 for opening a saved feature dictionary: 
```
Setting 1 requires that you have already run the script and have a _dict file produced by the script. It is currently not useful because the options downstream such as choosing promoters have not been added yet.

Setting 0 will lead to more user input and then perform a search based on the input.

Setting 0 leads to the input request below
```bash
Input name of genbank file (make sure it's in the working directory): 
```
Type in the name of a genbank file, including the file extension and confirm

Example:
```bash
bacillus_subtilis_genome.gbff
```
The script will print the ID of the genbank file and then ask for the search field.
```bash
Genbank file ID is: NC_000964.3
Type 0 to search by function, type 1 to search by product name: 
```

Choosing option 0 will search the genbank file by their functions, choosing 1 will search by the name of the gene product. 
Both will provide a list of all possible terms as a reference for the search. 

You will then be prompted to type in search terms. Type in one or more search terms (multiples separated by a comma) and confirm.

The final prompt is the name of the fasta file to be saved. Type in the file name without the file extension and confirm